
USAGE (nomen-extcase.py)

    Contents:

        1.  Definition
        2.  General stuff
          2.1  How to run Python scripts
          2.2  Overview of all command-line arguments
          2.3  Warning
          2.4  Simulation mode
        3.  Convert the case of file extensions
          3.1  Rename mode
          3.2  Skip mode

    1. Definition

        The Nomen Extension Case Converter script converts the case of the
        extension of all files inside a directory and (if requested) in all of
        its sub-directories.

    2. General stuff

        2.1 How to run Python scripts

            All usage examples below show how to execute the Python scripts on
            the shell of a Unix-like system. If you do not know, how to run
            those scripts on your operating system, you may have a look at
            this page:

                http://www.urbanware.org/howto_python.html

        2.2 Overview of all command-line arguments

            Usually, each script requires command-line arguments to operate.
            So, to get an overview of all arguments available, simply run the
            script with the "--help" argument. For example:

                $ ./nomen-extcase.py --help

        2.3 Warning

            Please use this tool with care to avoid data damage or loss!

            It is strongly recommended to simulate every rename process first
            to check which files would have been renamed. As a matter of fact,
            there is no function to undo the changes done by this tool, so you
            should be aware of what you are doing. If not, do NOT use this
            tool.

            Improper use (e. g. modifying files inside system directories)
            will corrupt your system!

        2.4 Simulation mode

            As already mentioned above, before renaming any files, you should
            simulate the rename process by using the "--simulate" argument.

            This argument requires a file path where the report of the rename
            process will be written to. When in simulation mode, no files will
            be renamed at all.

            So, if you have a command line like this

                ./nomen-extcase.py -m rename -c lower -d /tmp/pics/Holidays

            but want to simulate the rename process and write the report into
            the file "/tmp/report.txt", simply add the argument

                --simulate /tmp/report.txt

            to the command line:

                ./nomen-extcase.py -m rename -c lower -d /tmp/pics/Holidays \
                                   --simulate /tmp/report.txt

    3. Convert the case of file extensions

        For example, you have two picture files inside a directory called
        "Holidays" with these extensions

            Holidays 1.JPG
            Holidays 2.Jpg

        and you convert the extension case to lowercase, the file extensions
        will look like this:

            Holidays 1.jpg
            Holidays 2.jpg

        But, for example, if file system is case senstive and the directory
        contains the files

            Holidays 1.JPG
            Holidays 1.Jpg

        there would be a problem converting the file extension case, because
        both target file names would be identical. So, to avoid that, the
        script also offers two operating modes.

        3.1 Rename mode

            The "rename mode" adds a numeric ID to the duplicate target file
            and converts the file extension:

                Holidays 1.JPG      will be renamed to "Holidays 1.jpg"
                Holidays 1.Jpg      will be renamed to "Holidays 1_1.jpg"

            To use this mode and convert the file extensions to lowercase,
            type:

                ./nomen-extcase.py -m rename -c lower -d /tmp/pics/Holidays

        3.2 Skip mode

            The "skip mode" simply skips the files where converting the case
            of the file extension would result in duplicate file names:

                Holidays 1.JPG      will be renamed to "Holidays 1.jpg"
                Holidays 1.Jpg      will be skipped

            To use this mode and convert the file extensions to lowercase,
            type:

                ./nomen-extcase.py -m skip -c lower -d /tmp/pics/Holidays

