
USAGE (nomen-extren.py)

    Contents:

        1.  Definition
        2.  General stuff
          2.1  Overview of all command-line arguments
          2.2  Warning
          2.3  Simulation mode
        3.  Rename file extensions
          3.1  Rename mode
          3.2  Skip mode

    1. Definition

        The Nomen Extension Renamer script renames (and adjusts) differently
        spelled file extensions of the same file type file within a directory
        and (if requested) in all of its sub-directories.

    2. General stuff

        2.1 Overview of all command-line arguments

            Usually, each script requires command-line arguments to operate.
            So, to get an overview of all arguments available, simply run the
            script with the "--help" argument. For example:

                $ ./nomen-extren.py --help

        2.2 Warning

            Please use this tool with care to avoid data damage or loss as
            improper use (e.g. modifying files inside system directories) will
            corrupt your system!

            Before actually renaming files, it is strongly recommended to
            simulate every rename process first to check which files would
            have been renamed.

            As a matter of fact, there is no function to undo any of the
            changes done by this tool, so you should be aware of what you are
            doing. If not, do not use this tool.

        2.3 Simulation mode

            As already mentioned above, before renaming any files, you should
            simulate the rename process by using the "--simulate" argument.

            This argument requires a file path where the report of the rename
            process will be written to. When in simulation mode, no files will
            be renamed at all.

            So, if you have a command line like this

                ./nomen-extren.py -m rename -d /tmp/pics/Holidays \
                                  -e "JPG;JPEG" -t "jpg"

            but want to simulate the rename process and write the report into
            the file "/tmp/report.txt", simply add the argument

                --simulate /tmp/report.txt

            to the command line:

                ./nomen-extren.py -m rename -d /tmp/pics/Holidays \
                                  -e "JPG;JPEG" -t "jpg" \
                                  --simulate /tmp/report.txt

    3. Rename file extensions

        For example, you have four picture files inside a directory called
        "Holidays" with these extensions:

            Holidays 1.jpg
            Holidays 2.jpeg
            Holidays 3.JPG
            Holidays 4.Jpeg

        All of these files are JPEG pictures, but their extensions are spelled
        differently. So, the Nomen Extension Renamer script can be used to get
        consistent file extensions:

            Holidays 1.jpg
            Holidays 2.jpg
            Holidays 3.jpg
            Holidays 4.jpg

        But, for example, if file system is case senstive and the directory
        contains the files

            Holidays 1.Jpg
            Holidays 1.jpeg

        there would be a problem renaming the file extension, because both
        file target names would be identical. So, to avoid that, the script
        also offers two operating modes.

        3.1 Rename mode

            The "rename mode" adds a numeric ID to the duplicate target file
            and converts the file:

                Holidays 1.Jpg      will be renamed to "Holidays 1.jpg"
                Holidays 1.jpeg     will be renamed to "Holidays 1_1.jpg"

            To use this mode and rename the extensions of JPEG files,
            type:

                ./nomen-extren.py -m rename -d /tmp/pics/Holidays \
                                  -e "JPG;JPEG" -t "jpg"

        3.2 Skip mode

            The "skip mode" simply skips the files where converting the case
            of the file extension would result in duplicate file names:

                Holidays 1.Jpg      will be renamed to "Holidays 1.jpg"
                Holidays 1.jpeg     will be skipped

            To use this mode and rename the extensions of JPEG files, type:

                ./nomen-extren.py -m skip -d /tmp/pics/Holidays \
                                  -e "JPG;JPEG" -t "jpg"

